In the past 2 weeks, 30 U.S. states and territories have experienced more than 25 percent of an increase in COVID-19 cases, reports NBC.

“We have dark clouds on the horizon,” said New York Governor Andrew Cuomo in a recent press briefing. “The situation across the country is getting worse, not better.”

According to Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), the United States could experience a massive spike in COVID-19 cases if more isn’t done to prevent its spread.

“We are now having 40,000 cases a day. I would not be surprised if we go up to 100,000 a day if this does not turn around,” Fauci told a Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee hearing.

He added that the Fourth of July weekend could provide a “perfect storm” for a spike in new COVID-19 cases. More time spent indoors to escape summer’s heat may increase risk of COVID-19, according to Edward Nardell, a professor of medicine and global health and social medicine at Harvard Medical School in Massachusetts.

“The states that, in June, are already using a lot of air conditioning because of high temperatures are also the places where there’s been greater increases in spread of COVID-19, suggesting more time indoors as temperatures rise,” Nardell told the Harvard Gazette.

“As people go indoors in hot weather and the re-breathed air fraction goes up, the risk of infection is quite dramatic,” he said. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has updated its listTrusted Source of underlying conditions that may lead to more severe outcomes from a COVID-19 diagnosis.

The agency is warning that people with type 2 diabetes, kidney disease, whole organ transplants, and women who are pregnant could experience more severe outcomes if they contract COVID-19.

The updated guidelines also remove 65 as the age when more severe outcomes may occur. Instead, it is suggesting as people age, the chance of severe outcomes increases.

What does this mean to the public?

By removing a set age cut off, the updated guidelines give notice to people with underlying conditions of all ages that they are more likely to end up in an intensive care unit (ICU) if they contract the virus.

The guidelines do not suggest that people with these underlying conditions are more susceptible to developing COVID-19.

What should the public do?

Experts say the key is to stay in the know and practice safe habits such as masking, physical distancing, and, when needed, isolation.
