Trump Counters Fauci, Says States Should ‘Absolutely’ Reopen Schools
The president said governors should open schools to get “our country coming back.”

By Lauren Camera, Senior Education Writer May 13, 2020, at 6:48 p.m. 

President Donald Trump countered Anthony Fauci, the country's top infectious disease expert and a member of the White House coronavirus taskforce, saying Wednesday that the virus has had "very little impact" on children and that schools should "absolutely" reopen. 

"I think you should absolutely open the schools," Trump said, a mantra he's repeated in recent weeks as he and White House officials pressure governors to begin reopening their economies. "Our country has got to get back and it's got to get back as soon as possible, and I don't consider our country coming back if the schools are closed."
The remarks come one day after Fauci, along with top officials from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Food and Drug Administration and the Department of Health and Human Services, testified before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee about how to reopen businesses and schools.
During several exchanges with members of the committee, Fauci cautioned that opening schools too soon could not only lead to a spike in infections, but also set the economy even further back. Moreover, he said, the new severe inflammatory responses being reported in children infected by covid-19 are cause for concern and show that even the country's top medical experts don't fully understand the virus. 
"The idea of having treatments available, or a vaccination, to facilitate the reentry of students into the fall term would be something that would be a bit of a bridge too far," Fauci told the committee.
When asked by reporters about whether the president shares Fauci's concerns about reopening schools, Trump called Fauci's answers to Senate committee members' questions unacceptable. 
"I was surprised by his answer," he said. "To me it's not an acceptable answer especially when it comes to schools."
Trump went on to say that the virus has had "very little impact on young people."
The president did show concern for educators, nearly one-third of whom are over 55 and therefore at greater risk of having a severe infection. 
"If you're an instructor, if you're a teacher, a professor over a certain age like let's say 65 or maybe even if you want to be conservative, 60, perhaps you want to stay out for a little while longer," he said. 
